Update integrations strategy for July 2022 (#4197)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/strategy-goals/strategy/integrations/index.md

# Integrations Team Strategy

## Vision

Sourcegraph provides value anywhere that someone reads or writes code.

## Strategy and Plans for FY’23

### Themes

For the next 6 months, we will be focussing on the following two themes:

> 1. Moving extensions into the core workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Move extensions into the core workflow
```

> 2. Introducing new concepts to Sourcegraph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Introduce new concepts to Sourcegraph
```

Due to this focus, we'll be pausing feature work on IDE and Browser extensions.

#### Moving extensions into the core workflow

> The current goal for the company is to focus on the core workflow and developer time saved. The integrations team will contribute by moving the most heavily used extensions to be core parts of our product (e.g. code intelligence, open in editor, git extras etc.). For our customers this will result in these features being both faster and more discoverable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase the speed and discoverability of our extension functionality, we will move the most heavily used extensions to be core parts of our product (e.g. code intelligence, open in editor, git extras etc.)
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion. We could add a second line like "This allows us to contribute to the company strategy of focusing on core workflows." or something along those lines if you want it to connect more to later parts of this page.

Author: Reworded this which hopefully does the same job.

To further simplify the product and have a greater focus on the core workflow we will also deprecate the current Sourcegraph extensions and the extension registry. With the most used extensions becoming core parts of our product there's less need for our extensions. Instead, we will work towards a different extension model in order to support our goal of introducing new concepts to Sourcegraph. Deprecating Sourcegraph extensions will require us to work with our customers to determine what custom extensions have been built and endeavour to add them as native features.

> #### Start introducing new concepts to Sourcegraph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Introduce new concepts to Sourcegraph
```

In the long term we want Sourcegraph to become the primary source for information relating to code, tying all tools that developers use into a single platform. This will make Sourcegraph indispensable as we become the best way to answer any question relating to code, unblocking developers and saving their time.

> The first concept we want to introduce to Sourcegraph is code ownership. This has been a highly requested feature with clear, validated use cases across all of our products.

Reviewer: Should we add a comment here about how we're going to spend time in discoveryt/technical discovery (or is that obvious)?

Author: It's sort of implicit and it's also mentioned in the roadmap. I'm conscious of making this too wordy 😓

As we move towards a model of ingesting and storing new concepts, we don’t believe that the current model of extensions is right. For this reason and when coupled with security concerns around our open extension registry and front-end extensibility and generally low adoption we think it’s best to deprecate the current Sourcegraph extensions.

In doing that we will look at what functionality should become core parts of the application (E.g. code intelligence, open in editor, search export etc.), and what should be eventually moved to our new integration model. We will also carefully assess the impact to customers with their own private extension registry and those who’ve built their own extensions.

### What’s next and why

#### FY’23 Q3

- Code ownership
  - Code ownership database that can be queries by a “codeowners” keyword, and via an API
- Deprecating Sourcegraph extensions
  - Prevent authoring of new extensions on our Sourcegraph.com extension registry
  - Move “code intelligence” features to core functionality
  - Move “git extras” (i.e. git blame etc.) extension to core functionality
  - Move “open in editor” extension to core functionality

> #### FY’23 Q4+

Reviewer 2: I really like this framing of  "next 3 months" and then "later". might copy it
